docs/src/config/recipe/source.md, before:

# Source Recipe

A source recipe describes how to fetch files (often source code) to be used by other recipes.
In addition to the [common options](./main.md), the options shared by all source types are:

| Field      | Description                                                             | Value                                            |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| type       | The [source type](#source-type).                                        | `"tar.gz"` \| `"tar.xz"` \| `"git"` \| `"local"` |
| url        | Described per [source type](#source-type).                              | String                                           |
| patch      | A path to a patchfile, the path is relative to the root chariot file.   | String                                           |
| regenerate | A script to run _on_ the source, explained further [here](#regenerate). | Code Block                                       |

## Source Type

There are currently three methods supported:

- **"tar.gz"** | **"tar.xz"**

    This method fetches an archive from an URL, checks a checksum against it, extracts it.

    Options:

    | Field | Description                     | Value  |
    | ----- | ------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url   | URL to a tar archive.           | String |
    | b2sum | Blake2 checksum of the archive. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/autoconf {
        type: "tar.gz"
        url: "https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/autoconf/autoconf-2.72.tar.gz"
        b2sum: "48fff54704176cbf2642230229c628b75c43ef3f810c39eea40cae91dd02e1203d04a544407de96f9172419a94b952865909d969d9e9b6c10879a9d9aeea5ad0"
    }
    ```
    ````

- **"git"**

    This method clones a repo and checks out a specific revision.

    Options:

    | Field    | Description                                                   | Value  |
    | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url      | URL to a tar archive.                                         | String |
    | revision | Git revision to check out. Can be a commit hash, tag, branch. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/chariot {
        type: "git"
        url: "https://github.com/elysium-os/chariot"
        revision: "ece5664ddc1c7b0111ae870af0fc2aaa3fdb4c98"
    }
    ```
    ````

- **"local"**

    This method copies a local directory.

    Options:

    | Field | Description                                                             | Value  |
    | ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url   | Path to local directory, the path is relative to the root chariot file. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/support {
        type: "local"
        url: "support"
    }
    ```
    ````

## Regenerate

The regenerate field allows for a script to modify the source before it is used by other recipes.
The regenerate step runs after the patch is applied if one is specified.
Regenerate follows the standard [execution environment](/config/recipe/execution_env.md) with the exception that the current working directory is set to the source root.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for new features

docs/src/config/recipe/source.md, after:

# Source Recipe

A source recipe describes how to fetch and prepare files (often source code) to be used by other recipes.
In addition to the [common options](./main.md), source recipes allow the following options:

| Field      | Description                                                             | Value                                            |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| type       | The [source type](#source-type).                                        | `"tar.gz"` \| `"tar.xz"` \| `"git"` \| `"local"` |
|            | See [source type](#source-type) specific options.                       |                                                  |
| patch      | A path to a patchfile, the path is relative to the root chariot file.   | String                                           |
| regenerate | A script to run _on_ the source, explained further [here](#regenerate). | Code Block                                       |

## Source Type

There are currently three methods supported:

- **"tar.gz"** | **"tar.xz"**

    This method fetches an archive from an URL, checks a checksum against it, extracts it.

    Options:

    | Field | Description                     | Value  |
    | ----- | ------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url   | URL to a tar archive.           | String |
    | b2sum | Blake2 checksum of the archive. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/autoconf {
        type: "tar.gz"
        url: "https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/autoconf/autoconf-2.72.tar.gz"
        b2sum: "48fff54704176cbf2642230229c628b75c43ef3f810c39eea40cae91dd02e1203d04a544407de96f9172419a94b952865909d969d9e9b6c10879a9d9aeea5ad0"
    }
    ```
    ````

- **"git"**

    This method clones a repo and checks out a specific revision.

    Options:

    | Field    | Description                                                   | Value  |
    | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url      | URL to a tar archive.                                         | String |
    | revision | Git revision to check out. Can be a commit hash, tag, branch. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/chariot {
        type: "git"
        url: "https://github.com/elysium-os/chariot"
        revision: "ece5664ddc1c7b0111ae870af0fc2aaa3fdb4c98"
    }
    ```
    ````

    ```admonish warning
    If the revision is set to a branch or tag, chariot will not check for updates.
    In order to update the source the recipe needs to be explicitly built again.
    ```

- **"local"**

    This method copies a local directory.

    Options:

    | Field | Description                                                             | Value  |
    | ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
    | url   | Path to local directory, the path is relative to the root chariot file. | String |

    ````admonish example title="Example Config"
    ```
    source/support {
        type: "local"
        url: "support"
    }
    ```
    ````

    ```admonish warning
    Chariot will check every file/directory(s) timestamp (ctime) to determine whether it has changed.
    Although this is convenient it can result in significant performance issues for large sources because of the nature of recursing through every directory and checking timestamps.
    ```

## Regenerate

The regenerate field allows for a script to modify the source before it is used by other recipes.
The regenerate step runs after the patch is applied if one is specified.
Regenerate follows the standard [execution environment](/config/recipe/execution_env.md) with the exception that the current working directory is set to the source root.
